This is the SASL API library. It can be used on the client or server
side to provide authentication. See RFC 2222 for more information.

The following mechanisms are included in this distribution:
ANONYMOUS
CRAM-MD5
KERBEROS_V4
PLAIN
SCRAM-MD5
GSSAPI (MIT Kerberos 5 or Heimdal Kerberos 5)

The library uses the enviornment variable SASL_PATH to locate the
directory where the mechanisms are; this should be a colon-seperated
list of directories containing plugins.

The library uses a gdbm or ndbm file on the server side to check the
passwords. The utility makedbm.c has been included for creating a gdbm
file.

The test.c program tests a mechanism given on the command line. It
does a server client authentication interaction with that mechanism
and attempts to send some data from the client to server and server to
client.


We use a slightly hacked version of libtool--ours includes
inter-library dependancies when linking dynamic libraries.  We
understand why this isn't done as part of the standard libtool
distribution--it's not portable; there are some operating systems
which can't deal with dependancies between dynamic libraries--but all
the operating systems we care about deal with this Just Fine.  A
future project might involve opening the *.la files, looking for the
dependancy_libs information, parsing out the -L switches and resolving
each library in turn, but frankly, that'd be a real pain in the neck,
and we have better things to do for now.

Known Bugs: None

Comments/Suggestions:

Rob Earhart (rob@andrew.cmu.edu)
Tim Martin (tmartin@andrew.cmu.edu)


References:

[ANONYMOUS] Newman, C., "Anonymous SASL Mechanism", RFC 2245, November
1997.

[CRAM-MD5] Klensin, Catoe, Krumviede, "IMAP/POP AUTHorize Extension
for Simple Challenge/Response", RFC 2195, September 1997.

[KEYED-MD5] Krawczyk, Bellare, Canetti, "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
Authentication", RFC 2104, February 1997. 

[PLAIN] Newman, C., "Using TLS with IMAP4, POP3 and ACAP",
draft-newman-tls-imappop-xx.txt, Work in progress.

[SASL] Myers, J., "Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL)",
RFC 2222, October 1997.

[SCRAM-MD5] Newman, C., "Salted Challenge Response Authentication
Mechanism", draft-newman-auth-scram-xx.txt, Work in progress.
